docs: charm architecture (#64)
canonical/github-runner-image-builder-operator: docs/explanation/charm-architecture.md

    System_Ext(osgithubrunner, "OpenStack", "OpenStack deployment used for spawning runner VMs")
    Rel(githubrunner, osgithubrunner, "spawns VMs")
    UpdateRelStyle(githubrunner, osgithubrunner, $offsetY="-30", $offsetX="10")

    Rel(githubrunner, imagebuilder, "OpenStack credentials")
    UpdateRelStyle(githubrunner, imagebuilder, $offsetY="10", $offsetX="-60")
```

The image-builder uses the [Openstack SDK](https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/)  to spawn a VM instance in a cloud specified
by a config option. Using an external OpenStack VM instead of the charms machine allows for more features
(using chroot has some limitations, e.g. for building snaps) and parallel image building.
[cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/) is used to install the necessary dependencies for spawning self-hosted runners
([github actions runner binary](https://github.com/actions/runner)) and e.g. tools for automatic proxy support ([aproxy](https://github.com/canonical/aproxy)). 
In addition, software that is heavily used in Canonical projects (such as [juju](https://juju.is/) or [microk8s](https://microk8s.io/)) 

> is pre-installed to reduce the actual CI runtime (as users do not have to install this software in their respective CI runs). 

Reviewer: perhaps it might be more accurate to say
```suggestion
can be configured to be pre-installed to reduce the actual CI runtime (as users do not have to install this software in their respective CI runs). 
```

There is also a custom script configuration combined with a secret that is run in the cloud-init script to allow further customization of the images.

> The image-builder repeatedly checks to see if the cloud-init script has finished running, then snapshots the VM, uploads the image to a specified Openstack project,

Reviewer: I think we can also specify that the script must complete successfully :)
```suggestion
The image-builder repeatedly checks to see if the cloud-init script has finished successfully, then snapshots the VM, uploads the image to a specified Openstack project,
```

and deletes the VM. This specified Openstack project is determined via the `image:github_runner_image_v0` integration with another charm (e.g. [GitHub Runner Charm](https://charmhub.io/github-runner)).
The other charm can then use the image to spawn a VM instance with the necessary software preinstalled.
The charm sets up a cron job to build the images periodically to ensure that the latest software is installed in the images

The interactions between the charm and the image-builder are performed using CLI commands. 
The image-builder application is not daemonized and stops running after the image has been built
and uploaded to Openstack.

> The image-builder application must be initialized before it can be used. Initialization includes

Reviewer: It sounds like the user must do this, would it be better to say
```suggestion
The image-builder application is initialized by the charm before it can be used. Initialization includes
```

```mermaid

C4Container
title Container diagram for Image Builder System

 Container_Boundary(c1, "Image Builder") {
    Container(imagebuilder, "Image Builder", "", "Provides images to all related charms")
 }
    System_Ext(osbuilding, "OpenStack", "OpenStack deployment used for building images")

Container_Boundary(c2, "GitHub Runner"){

    Container(githubrunner, "GitHub Runner Charm", "", "Manages self-hosted runners")
}
    Rel(imagebuilder, osbuilding, "builds images")
    UpdateRelStyle(imagebuilder, osbuilding, $offsetY="-30", $offsetX="10")
    Rel(imagebuilder, osgithubrunner, "uploads images")
    UpdateRelStyle(imagebuilder, osgithubrunner, $offsetY="-30", $offsetX="-90")

    Rel(imagebuilder, githubrunner, "image ids")
    UpdateRelStyle(imagebuilder, githubrunner, $offsetY="-10", $offsetX="-30")

    System_Ext(osgithubrunner, "OpenStack", "OpenStack deployment used for spawning runner VMs")
    Rel(githubrunner, osgithubrunner, "spawns VMs")
    UpdateRelStyle(githubrunner, osgithubrunner, $offsetY="-30", $offsetX="10")

    Rel(githubrunner, imagebuilder, "OpenStack credentials")
    UpdateRelStyle(githubrunner, imagebuilder, $offsetY="10", $offsetX="-60")

> ```

Reviewer 2: Thanks for including a diagram! This is more of a high-level reference representation of how the Image Builder works in the context of the GH runner ecosystem. In this doc, we'd also like a diagram to focus on how the charm works internally.

I think that the diagram is still helpful and can be included in the doc, but could you also add a diagram showing how the charm works internally, e.g., how it's containerized? Let me know if you have any questions about what I mean.

Author: Just to be clear, containerized means a [container in C4 terms](https://c4model.com/abstractions/container) and we are not talking about OCI containers (as this is a machine charm, there are no OCI containers)?

# Charm architecture

The GitHub Runner Image Builder is a machine charm responsible for managing an application ("image-builder")
that creates and stores VM images suitable for use by self-hosted GitHub Runners using OpenStack. 

> The image-builder source code is hosted at https://github.com/canonical/github-runner-image-builder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image-builder source code is hosted in the [github-runner-image-builder GitHub repository](https://github.com/canonical/github-runner-image-builder).
```

   Component(charm, "Charm", "", "Observes events") 
 Component(operator, "Operator", "", "Handles operational logic by calling application")

  Rel(charm, operator, "sets up")
  Rel(charm, image, "registers events")
}

Container_Boundary(ibapp), "Image Builder App") {
 Component(builder, "Builder", "", "Builds images and uploads to clouds")

}

Rel(operator, builder, "init, run")

UpdateRelStyle(charm, operator, $offsetX="0", $offsetY="-10")
UpdateRelStyle(charm, image, $offsetX="-40", $offsetY="-20")
UpdateRelStyle(operator, builder, $offsetX="-20", $offsetY="-10")
```

## Juju events

The following Juju [events](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/event) are observed and handled by the charm as follows:

1. [install](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/install-event): The charm is installed on the machine. The charm initializes the machine by installing dependent software packages,
storing OpenStack credentials on disk and initializing the image-builder application.
2. [config-changed](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/config-changed-event): The configuration of the charm has changed. The charm applies the configuration (e.g. changes to proxy or OpenStack credentials).

> 3. `run`: This is a [custom event](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/custom-event) that is periodically triggered by a cronjob. It is used to call the image-builder application to build the image.

Reviewer 2: For my understanding, do the terms "cronjob" and "cron job" refer to two separate things? The "cron job" term was used previously in the document, so if they are the same thing, then I recommend choosing a single term for consistency.

> See more about events in the Juju docs: [Event](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/event)

## Charm code overview

The `src/charm.py` is the default entry point for a charm and has the GithubRunnerImageBuilderCharm Python class which inherits from CharmBase. CharmBase is the base class 
from which all charms are formed, defined by [Ops](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/ops) (Python framework for developing charms).

> See more in the Juju docs: [Charm](https://juju.is/docs/sdk/constructs#heading--charm)

The `__init__` method guarantees that the charm observes all events relevant to its operation and handles them.

Take, for example, when a configuration is changed by using the CLI.

1. User runs the configuration command:
```bash
juju config github-runner-image-builder build-interval=3
```
2. A `config-changed` event is emitted.
3. In the `__init__` method is defined how to handle this event like this:
```python
self.framework.observe(self.on.config_changed, self._on_config_changed)
```
4. The method `_on_config_changed`, for its turn, will take the necessary actions such as updating the cron job's interval to 3 hours.

> The code is structured according to the best practices described in https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/specification-isd014-managing-charm-complexity/11619.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code is structured according to the best practices described in [Managing charm complexity](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/specification-isd014-managing-charm-complexity/11619).
```
